# Week 4 - Science Communication 


## A Scientific Poster

While the published journal article may be the golden standard for communicating results in the field of physics, many new projects are first showcased as a poster. Posters offer a distilled version of the argument that would be provided in a paper, presenting the highlights and essentials without explaining each detail. In this way, posters land somewhere in between an outline and a complete journal article. Often posters are presented *en masse* at conferences, with observers roaming from poster to poster, whether in person or virtually, so it's important to create a poster than can be understood quickly. As a poster writer, we ask ourselves "who is my audience, and what do they need to learn from my poster to be convinced by my argument and appreciate its significance?"

To help streamline the process for the poster reader, it can be helpful to format a poster using a standard sequence of sections, such as the following:
- Introduction, which provides contextual motivation for the study, sometimes including the background theory needed to understand the results
- Methods section, which briefly describes how data was collected
- Results and discussion section, which describes how the raw data was analyzed to deliver the main result. Often there is also a smaller, secondary result that is communicated in this section.
- Conclusions section, which highlights the main points presented in the poster, states the significance of the main result, and often offers a suggestion of a follow-up study, describing what next steps the author would take to further explore the topic.

## Module 3 Deliverable

The final deliverable in physics 50 is a poster describing your main result and a secondary result from Module 3. Because this is an opportunity for you to demonstrate what you have learned about data collection, analysis, and scientific communication in this course, we are providing little scaffolding in terms of the content of your poster. However, we have provided a [Ph 50 Poster Template](Ph50-Poster-Template.pptx) which will help you format your poster. When you open the template you will notice that we have already defined poster sections, including an introduction *that we have already written for you.* Here's how to use the template to create your poster:

- Edit the poster title and your name.
- Keep the introduction as we have written it.
- Keep the section headings as we have written them.
- Use the font that we have chosen. Your font sizes should also remain close to their current values (24-28 pt font in our template for body text; >36 pt for headers). 
- Add in any figures (w/captions), equations and data tables you need to make your argument.
- Write in  short paragraphs made up of full sentences throughout the poster, with one exception: The conclusions section should be formatted as a bulleted list. Each bullet point must be a complete sentence.
- Edit the acknowledgements and add any external references you used.

**The poster is a standalone explanation of your work, and unlike in the Module 2 deliverable, here any equation data or image you wish to reference must actually be present in the poster.**

Before you complete your poster, you should review your feedback from Deliverable 2 and Module 3 Checkpoint 3. Please read over [this summary of the important feedback from those assignments](feedback-summary){:target="_blank"}. We also recommend reviewing the lessons on [creating a single figure](https://physics-50.github.io/Module-1/week4){:target="_blank"} and [creating a sequence of figures](https://physics-50.github.io/Module-2/week4){:target="_blank"}.

#### Formatting tips

1. The legends generated by the MATLAB curve fitting script introduce some possibly unimportant information for your reader. You can place a white box in Powerpoint over top of the plot legends, and then put the relevant information in the figure caption. 

2. Getting the right font size and aspect ratios of your plots can be tricky. Check out this hack from Prof. Gerbode:

<iframe src="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1amkvHqnq95x_lWILiQq5-aDRmlFL4qOe/preview" width="640" height="480">
</iframe>

<br> <br>

### How your poster will be evaluated

The final deliverable will be evaluated on the quality/clarity of the individual figures with captions, the cohesion and global coherence of the sequence of figures and text of the poster, how well the results were supported by the evidence provided, the accuracy and significance of the main result, and the accuracy and significance of any secondary results.


When you are ready, submit your poster as a single .pdf file [here on Gradescope](https://www.gradescope.com/courses/165932/assignments/848530){:target="_blank"}.

**The deadline is Tuesday November 24, 11:55pm PT.**

There are no miniquestions this week.
